sections/benefits.md, before:

# Benefits & Perks

> [!NOTE]
> Being a **MarsBased** employee comes with a lot of benefits.

- [Office Material 👩🏻‍💻](#office-material-)
- [Language Courses 🗣](#language-courses-)
- [Training & Learning 🤓](#training--learning-)
- [Referral bonus 👩🏻‍🚀](#referral-bonus-)
- [Sports & Health 🚴🏻‍♀️](#sports--health-%EF%B8%8F)
- [Conferences 🎤](#conferences-)
- [Coworking 🏢](#coworking-)

## Office Material 👩🏻‍💻

We are an officeless company, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't have one. Count on MarsBased support to create a comfortable working spaceship 🚀

### Equipment & budget

When you join our crew, you get a laptop or a desktop computer with the specs you like. Additionally, MarsBased covers the costs of your office materials, such as a desk, a secondary screen, a chair, etc. We only ask you to use it sensibly.
Find below examples of products, as well as the budget up to which the company is covering for each product type. You can, of course, choose a model not listed here. Feel free to choose your flavor! In case you choose a product that exceeds the budget, you will just have to cover the difference.

#### Laptop or desktop computer

Given the tools we use, we recommend getting a Mac or Linux, but we're open to adapting to your preferences as much as possible. As a default, we offer the following two options:

- [MacBook Air M3 (13 or 15”, 16GB RAM, 512 SSD)](https://www.apple.com/es/macbook-air/)
- [MacBook Pro M4 (14”, 16GB RAM, 512 SSD)](https://www.apple.com/es/macbook-pro/)
- [Mac Mini M4 (16GB RAM, 512 SSD)](https://www.apple.com/es/mac-mini/)
- [Slimbook Executive 14 with Ubunto or Linux Mint (14", 32GB RAM, 1TB NVMe)](https://slimbook.com/en/executive)

#### Chair (200€)

- [Silla Axel, Ofiprix](https://www.ofiprix.com/muebles-de-oficina/sillas-de-oficina/sillas-operativas/silla-axel-negro.html)
- [Markus, Ikea](https://www.ikea.com/es/es/p/markus-silla-trabajo-vissle-gris-oscuro-70261150/)

#### Desk (300€)

- [Idasen, Ikea](https://www.ikea.com/es/es/p/idasen-escritorio-marron-beige-s39281018/)
- [Bekant, Ikea](https://www.ikea.com/es/es/p/bekant-escritorio-elevable-blanco-s69022537/)

#### External monitor (300€)

- [LG 27UL550-W](https://www.amazon.es/LG-27UL550-W-Monitor-p%C3%ADxeles-Blanco/dp/B07QS5DBBH/)

#### Keyboard (120€)

- [Apple Magic keyboard](https://www.apple.com/es/shop/product/MXCL3Y/A/magic-keyboard-usb-c-espa%C3%B1ol?fnode=dcd057ab8f93f81202e0ada82d12124d2037283bf82870a11f54e14b85fa2c12366ae72e8d19fcbbfe7c565ad7eb64ca14e5c21c893bf22c5f6e02ab93a59fcb23cd9118bb9cb1d8511ab39fa6b497bf6cc3ff885d1d2bbcce48c949f1147954)
- [Keychron K3 Wireless Mechanical keyboard](https://www.amazon.es/Keychron-inal%C3%A1mbrico-Ultra-Delgado-Hot-swappable-Low-Profile/dp/B0BY2SCHZT/)

#### Mouse or Trackpad (135€)

- [Apple Magic trackpad](https://www.apple.com/es/shop/product/MXK93Z/A/magic-trackpad-usb%E2%80%91c-superficie-multi%E2%80%91touch-blanca?fnode=d04ee1e7f091ad6ec0d8a930b0c2a327fe25c22abfc0eb1d535c1ac9949d4decc7e0f3d7b7a951aabc5969365949eede844fc42dd07d290ea0894ad4a74cd7559447a99f3c9d5f4d7094dfc0b7d29cbb8305ae26079035c19dfe9d0b82bedbdc)
- [Apple Magic mouse](https://www.apple.com/es/shop/product/MXK53ZM/A/magic-mouse-usb%E2%80%91c-superficie-multi%E2%80%91touch-blanca?fnode=c00599bad20ff3214dd4af2cf451f231d9f48152b6cf8b6f4b5ceeed8d9b035c5b958010a5a81a2609ddbed9c5d0d5183c8168540e45f2e1fb1c2efe3760fec1f68b722e698bba56ccc27eb4c8ae94efc2e998fdb149c0729c71a7690e4acce1)
- [Logitech G402](https://www.amazon.es/Logitech-G402-botones-programables-Hyperion/dp/B00LFBEOUA/)

#### Webcam (80€)

- [Logitech C922](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B01L6L52K4/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o01_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1)

#### Headphones (30€)

- [Sony MDR-EX110AP](https://www.amazon.es/Sony-MDR-EX110AP-Auriculares-ear-micr%C3%B3fono/dp/B00I3LUUIU/ref=sr_1_13?__mk_es_ES=%C3%85M%C3%85%C5%BD%C3%95%C3%91&dchild=1&keywords=auriculares+sony+cable&qid=1607328799&sr=8-13)

### How to proceed

1. Whenever you need any material, let us know on this [Linear issue](https://linear.app/marsbased/issue/MBT-18).
2. If you choose one of the above-recommended products or any other within that budget, we'll buy the product for you, and you will receive it at home in due time.
3. If you opt for a product that exceeds the budget, please buy it yourself and send us a photo of the receipt to [admin@marsbased.com](mailto:admin@marsbased.com) (no invoice is needed in this case). You will get reimbursed up to the budget amount in your next payroll.

Hope your new purchase meets your expectations and allows you to work more comfortably 🙌🏼

## Language courses 🗣

From MarsBased, we strongly encourage you to improve your English skills (or any other language you're interested in, such as Spanish, Japanese, or Basque 😅). You can invest up to one hour per week during the workday in English learning classes without needing to make up for the time.

### Budget

For that purpose, you get up to 180€/200$ per quarter to take on-site/online lessons, or use the iTalki language learning platform.

#### How to proceed if using iTalki

1. Let us know on this [Linear issue](https://linear.app/marsbased/issue/MBT-19) you want to take up language lessons in iTalki.
2. If this is your first time using iTalki, you will need to sign up and set up your profile. You can use the MarsBased email address or your personal one.
3. Let us know the email address of your account so that we can transfer the credit of 200$. You will receive it in 1-2 days in your account.
4. Every quarter or when you run out of credit after that period, reach out to us to request your credit again. You will receive it within 1-2 days in your account.

#### How to proceed if using other means

1. Let us know on this [Linear issue](https://linear.app/marsbased/issue/MBT-19) your preferred option for taking language lessons.
2. Make sure the academy or private professor you've chosen is able to issue us an invoice (either monthly or quarterly) so that we can make the payment to them, or we can reimburse you for the payment you previously made. The invoice should include the following billing data:

```
MarsBased SL
NIF: B66245077
Sardenya 470, 2-1
Barcelona, 08025
```

If you'd like to go for an alternative way of learning languages, let us know, and we'll do our best to adapt to it.

## Training & Learning 🤓

We have different initiatives aimed at supporting Martians' professional growth and skill development. From ensuring project rotation every time when possible, to the weekly Martian Tapas session, or the participation in conferences like the EuRuKo.

### Allowance

In addition to the mentioned, MarsBased offers you an allowance of 150€ per year to invest in your learning process as an engineer, professional, and human. This can include conference fees, course registration, coaching sessions, buying books, etc.

You may also use part of your working hours for training if:

- The training is aligned with MarsBased’s tech stack or your current role and responsibilities.

- It is discussed and agreed upon in advance with your area manager.

- It does not interfere with project delivery, client meetings, or team responsibilities.

Requests for technical training during working hours will be evaluated individually based on each person’s workload and project context. There is no need to make up for the hours used, as long as the conditions above are met.

### How to proceed

1. Whenever you want to invest in your training, let us know on this [Linear issue](https://linear.app/marsbased/issue/MBT-20) the product or service you want to get.
2. Proceed with the purchase of the product/service.
3. Send a photo of the receipt to [admin@marsbased.com](mailto:admin@marsbased.com).
4. You will get reimbursed up to 150€/year in your next payroll.
5. In case the allowance isn’t used (partly or at all) throughout the year (for any reason), the remaining amount of the allowance will be added to your payroll as a "bonus" at the end of the year.

> [!NOTE]
> Please note that both the unused amount and any reimbursements not issued under MarsBased’s name will be treated as part of your salary and, therefore, are subject to tax and social security retentions from your paycheck.

Have fun and enjoy the lifelong learning process! 🤹🏻‍♀️

## Referral bonus 👩🏻‍🚀

We normally hire 2-3 engineers per year. We are open to receiving recommendations from you on colleagues you've worked with or any engineers you may know and think could be a good fit for our team.

If you introduce us to this person and facilitate the conversations, you will get a referral bonus of 1000€ if we end up hiring her or him. We will pay the bonus after the third month of that person in the company.

Let Leire/Eli know if you have any recommendations.

This is always a good opportunity to work with people you have worked with and liked in the past!

## Sports & Health 🚴🏻‍♀️

We all know about the importance of exercising and participating in sports for our health and overall well-being, even though it often proves challenging to dedicate the time to it. From MarsBased, we'd like to give you a boost and encourage you to do the type of exercise you enjoy.

### Allowance

We offer you an allowance of 150€ per year to invest in sports and health-related activities or products. This can include gym fees, yoga lessons, the new running shoes you are willing to buy, or a session with a personal trainer. Whatever sounds appealing to you.

### How to proceed

1. Once you make your choice of the product, activity, or service you want to use, let us know on this [Linear issue](https://linear.app/marsbased/issue/MBT-20).
2. Proceed with the purchase of the product/service.
3. Send a photo of the receipt to [admin@marsbased.com](mailto:admin@marsbased.com).
4. You will get reimbursed up to 150€/year in your next payroll.
5. In case the allowance isn’t used (partly or at all) throughout the year (for any reason), the remaining amount of the allowance will be added to your payroll as a "bonus" at the end of the year.

> [!NOTE]
> Please note that both the unused amount and any reimbursements not issued under MarsBased’s name will be treated as part of your salary and, therefore, are subject to tax and social security retentions from your paycheck.

Have fun & stay in shape! 🏄🏻‍♀️

## Conferences 🎤

Martians sometimes go to conferences as a way of learning new things and meeting other colleagues in the sector.

### Origin of proposals

In some cases, MarsBased is interested in (part of) the team participating in a specific conference, and therefore, the proposal for participation comes from the company itself. In this case, MarsBased pays for the conference fee + travel, + hotel expenses. You don’t need to recover those work hours later on.

We are also open to your proposals. If you are interested in attending a conference in the sector, please let us know by following these steps, and we will review it to see how we can help you.

### How to suggest a proposal

1. Create a new discussion in the [Linear board](https://linear.app/marsbased/team/MBT/active) for the conference you'd like to attend, and name it as "Attending + Name of the conference"
2. Include the following details about the conference:

- Event dates
- Conference fee (if any)
- How do you expect MarsBased to support you
- Why should MarsBased support you (which is the value you expect the conference will bring to you and to the company)

### Evaluation

We'll evaluate the information provided, and depending on the relevance for the company, you might get some days off for attending the conference, have conference tickets covered, or even get transportation and accommodation expenses covered. The conference will be considered:

- **Highly relevant:** when the content is directly related to your work and MarsBased activity. In this case, the company will be happy to pay for the conference fee + travel, + hotel expenses. You won’t need to recover those hours later on.
- **Interesting:** when the content is not very relevant for the company, but offers learning potential for you as an engineer. In this case, you'll be able to attend the conference during your work schedule. You won’t need to recover those hours later on.
- **Unrelated:** when the conference is not related to your work or MarsBased activity. In this case, the company offers you the flexibility to attend the conference during your work schedule and recover those hours another day as best fits you.

For conferences considered interesting and unrelated, remember you can use the allowance you get for training & learning purposes to cover the conference fee, travel, and/or hotel expenses.

You are welcome to bring your proposals! 📭

### Attending conferences: what’s expected of you

When you attend a conference on behalf of MarsBased, here’s what we expect from you.

**1) During the event**

- **Visibility.** Share at least one update on LinkedIn or X (Twitter) highlighting our presence (photo of the venue, keynote, booth, or yourself/team).
- **Photos & videos.** Capture a few photos or short clips during the event (talks, venue, team moments) and send them to Marketing so they can edit and publish on our channels.
- **Optional.** If time allows, short tweets/posts during the event are welcome.

**2) After the event**

- **Write-up (internal).** Each attendee prepares a short write-up for internal use. It doesn’t need to be polished—Marketing will refine it into a blog post.
- **Suggested formats:** “Top 5 takeaways from [Event Name]” or “Top 3 talks I attended.”

Include highlights, key insights, and any personal reflections.

**Blog post (public).** Marketing adapts your write-up into a public-facing blog post.

**3) Why this matters**

This helps us:

- Increase visibility in the community.
- Share knowledge with our audience.
- Strengthen both personal and company reputation.

## Coworking 🏢

Working from home might not be comfortable for everyone due to a lack of adequate working conditions at home, difficulties in concentrating because relatives are around, or the feeling of being too isolated and needing to be surrounded by other coworkers.

### Budget

If that's your case and you need a coworking space, MarsBased will provide you with an allowance of 150€ per month to pay the cost.

### How to proceed

1. Let Leire/Eli know your need for coworking.
2. If you've already identified the coworking place that suits you, that's great. Otherwise, we’ll help you find one (especially if you are based in Barcelona, where we know more places).
3. Normally, coworking spaces require signing a contract, and they charge a fee on a monthly basis. Let's see what the conditions are in that specific case, and we'll agree on the easiest way to manage it (can be either directly from MarsBased or through you).
4. **Let us know beforehand** when you are going to stop using your coworking space, either **temporarily or permanently**. Let the coworking know that as well, so as to avoid being charged for that period.

Count on us whenever you need something regarding your workspace!

Commit message:

Be more specific by saying “software engineer” instead of just “engineer.

sections/benefits.md, after:

# Benefits & Perks

> [!NOTE]
> Being a **MarsBased** employee comes with a lot of benefits.

- [Office Material 👩🏻‍💻](#office-material-)
- [Language Courses 🗣](#language-courses-)
- [Training & Learning 🤓](#training--learning-)
- [Referral bonus 👩🏻‍🚀](#referral-bonus-)
- [Sports & Health 🚴🏻‍♀️](#sports--health-%EF%B8%8F)
- [Conferences 🎤](#conferences-)
- [Coworking 🏢](#coworking-)

## Office Material 👩🏻‍💻

We are an officeless company, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't have one. Count on MarsBased support to create a comfortable working spaceship 🚀

### Equipment & budget

When you join our crew, you get a laptop or a desktop computer with the specs you like. Additionally, MarsBased covers the costs of your office materials, such as a desk, a secondary screen, a chair, etc. We only ask you to use it sensibly.
Find below examples of products, as well as the budget up to which the company is covering for each product type. You can, of course, choose a model not listed here. Feel free to choose your flavor! In case you choose a product that exceeds the budget, you will just have to cover the difference.

#### Laptop or desktop computer

Given the tools we use, we recommend getting a Mac or Linux, but we're open to adapting to your preferences as much as possible. As a default, we offer the following two options:

- [MacBook Air M3 (13 or 15”, 16GB RAM, 512 SSD)](https://www.apple.com/es/macbook-air/)
- [MacBook Pro M4 (14”, 16GB RAM, 512 SSD)](https://www.apple.com/es/macbook-pro/)
- [Mac Mini M4 (16GB RAM, 512 SSD)](https://www.apple.com/es/mac-mini/)
- [Slimbook Executive 14 with Ubunto or Linux Mint (14", 32GB RAM, 1TB NVMe)](https://slimbook.com/en/executive)

#### Chair (200€)

- [Silla Axel, Ofiprix](https://www.ofiprix.com/muebles-de-oficina/sillas-de-oficina/sillas-operativas/silla-axel-negro.html)
- [Markus, Ikea](https://www.ikea.com/es/es/p/markus-silla-trabajo-vissle-gris-oscuro-70261150/)

#### Desk (300€)

- [Idasen, Ikea](https://www.ikea.com/es/es/p/idasen-escritorio-marron-beige-s39281018/)
- [Bekant, Ikea](https://www.ikea.com/es/es/p/bekant-escritorio-elevable-blanco-s69022537/)

#### External monitor (300€)

- [LG 27UL550-W](https://www.amazon.es/LG-27UL550-W-Monitor-p%C3%ADxeles-Blanco/dp/B07QS5DBBH/)

#### Keyboard (120€)

- [Apple Magic keyboard](https://www.apple.com/es/shop/product/MXCL3Y/A/magic-keyboard-usb-c-espa%C3%B1ol?fnode=dcd057ab8f93f81202e0ada82d12124d2037283bf82870a11f54e14b85fa2c12366ae72e8d19fcbbfe7c565ad7eb64ca14e5c21c893bf22c5f6e02ab93a59fcb23cd9118bb9cb1d8511ab39fa6b497bf6cc3ff885d1d2bbcce48c949f1147954)
- [Keychron K3 Wireless Mechanical keyboard](https://www.amazon.es/Keychron-inal%C3%A1mbrico-Ultra-Delgado-Hot-swappable-Low-Profile/dp/B0BY2SCHZT/)

#### Mouse or Trackpad (135€)

- [Apple Magic trackpad](https://www.apple.com/es/shop/product/MXK93Z/A/magic-trackpad-usb%E2%80%91c-superficie-multi%E2%80%91touch-blanca?fnode=d04ee1e7f091ad6ec0d8a930b0c2a327fe25c22abfc0eb1d535c1ac9949d4decc7e0f3d7b7a951aabc5969365949eede844fc42dd07d290ea0894ad4a74cd7559447a99f3c9d5f4d7094dfc0b7d29cbb8305ae26079035c19dfe9d0b82bedbdc)
- [Apple Magic mouse](https://www.apple.com/es/shop/product/MXK53ZM/A/magic-mouse-usb%E2%80%91c-superficie-multi%E2%80%91touch-blanca?fnode=c00599bad20ff3214dd4af2cf451f231d9f48152b6cf8b6f4b5ceeed8d9b035c5b958010a5a81a2609ddbed9c5d0d5183c8168540e45f2e1fb1c2efe3760fec1f68b722e698bba56ccc27eb4c8ae94efc2e998fdb149c0729c71a7690e4acce1)
- [Logitech G402](https://www.amazon.es/Logitech-G402-botones-programables-Hyperion/dp/B00LFBEOUA/)

#### Webcam (80€)

- [Logitech C922](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B01L6L52K4/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o01_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1)

#### Headphones (30€)

- [Sony MDR-EX110AP](https://www.amazon.es/Sony-MDR-EX110AP-Auriculares-ear-micr%C3%B3fono/dp/B00I3LUUIU/ref=sr_1_13?__mk_es_ES=%C3%85M%C3%85%C5%BD%C3%95%C3%91&dchild=1&keywords=auriculares+sony+cable&qid=1607328799&sr=8-13)

### How to proceed

1. Whenever you need any material, let us know on this [Linear issue](https://linear.app/marsbased/issue/MBT-18).
2. If you choose one of the above-recommended products or any other within that budget, we'll buy the product for you, and you will receive it at home in due time.
3. If you opt for a product that exceeds the budget, please buy it yourself and send us a photo of the receipt to [admin@marsbased.com](mailto:admin@marsbased.com) (no invoice is needed in this case). You will get reimbursed up to the budget amount in your next payroll.

Hope your new purchase meets your expectations and allows you to work more comfortably 🙌🏼

## Language courses 🗣

From MarsBased, we strongly encourage you to improve your English skills (or any other language you're interested in, such as Spanish, Japanese, or Basque 😅). You can invest up to one hour per week during the workday in English learning classes without needing to make up for the time.

### Budget

For that purpose, you get up to 180€/200$ per quarter to take on-site/online lessons, or use the iTalki language learning platform.

#### How to proceed if using iTalki

1. Let us know on this [Linear issue](https://linear.app/marsbased/issue/MBT-19) you want to take up language lessons in iTalki.
2. If this is your first time using iTalki, you will need to sign up and set up your profile. You can use the MarsBased email address or your personal one.
3. Let us know the email address of your account so that we can transfer the credit of 200$. You will receive it in 1-2 days in your account.
4. Every quarter or when you run out of credit after that period, reach out to us to request your credit again. You will receive it within 1-2 days in your account.

#### How to proceed if using other means

1. Let us know on this [Linear issue](https://linear.app/marsbased/issue/MBT-19) your preferred option for taking language lessons.
2. Make sure the academy or private professor you've chosen is able to issue us an invoice (either monthly or quarterly) so that we can make the payment to them, or we can reimburse you for the payment you previously made. The invoice should include the following billing data:

```
MarsBased SL
NIF: B66245077
Sardenya 470, 2-1
Barcelona, 08025
```

If you'd like to go for an alternative way of learning languages, let us know, and we'll do our best to adapt to it.

## Training & Learning 🤓

We have different initiatives aimed at supporting Martians' professional growth and skill development. From ensuring project rotation every time when possible, to the weekly Martian Tapas session, or the participation in conferences like the EuRuKo.

### Allowance

In addition to the mentioned, MarsBased offers you an allowance of 150€ per year to invest in your learning process as a software engineer, professional, and human. This can include conference fees, course registration, coaching sessions, buying books, etc.

You may also use part of your working hours for training if:

- The training is aligned with MarsBased’s tech stack or your current role and responsibilities.

- It is discussed and agreed upon in advance with your area manager.

- It does not interfere with project delivery, client meetings, or team responsibilities.

Requests for technical training during working hours will be evaluated individually based on each person’s workload and project context. There is no need to make up for the hours used, as long as the conditions above are met.

### How to proceed

1. Whenever you want to invest in your training, let us know on this [Linear issue](https://linear.app/marsbased/issue/MBT-20) the product or service you want to get.
2. Proceed with the purchase of the product/service.
3. Send a photo of the receipt to [admin@marsbased.com](mailto:admin@marsbased.com).
4. You will get reimbursed up to 150€/year in your next payroll.
5. In case the allowance isn’t used (partly or at all) throughout the year (for any reason), the remaining amount of the allowance will be added to your payroll as a "bonus" at the end of the year.

> [!NOTE]
> Please note that both the unused amount and any reimbursements not issued under MarsBased’s name will be treated as part of your salary and, therefore, are subject to tax and social security retentions from your paycheck.

Have fun and enjoy the lifelong learning process! 🤹🏻‍♀️

## Referral bonus 👩🏻‍🚀

We normally hire 2-3 software engineers per year. We are open to receiving recommendations from you on colleagues you've worked with or any software engineers you may know and think could be a good fit for our team.

If you introduce us to this person and facilitate the conversations, you will get a referral bonus of 1000€ if we end up hiring her or him. We will pay the bonus after the third month of that person in the company.

Let Leire/Eli know if you have any recommendations.

This is always a good opportunity to work with people you have worked with and liked in the past!

## Sports & Health 🚴🏻‍♀️

We all know about the importance of exercising and participating in sports for our health and overall well-being, even though it often proves challenging to dedicate the time to it. From MarsBased, we'd like to give you a boost and encourage you to do the type of exercise you enjoy.

### Allowance

We offer you an allowance of 150€ per year to invest in sports and health-related activities or products. This can include gym fees, yoga lessons, the new running shoes you are willing to buy, or a session with a personal trainer. Whatever sounds appealing to you.

### How to proceed

1. Once you make your choice of the product, activity, or service you want to use, let us know on this [Linear issue](https://linear.app/marsbased/issue/MBT-20).
2. Proceed with the purchase of the product/service.
3. Send a photo of the receipt to [admin@marsbased.com](mailto:admin@marsbased.com).
4. You will get reimbursed up to 150€/year in your next payroll.
5. In case the allowance isn’t used (partly or at all) throughout the year (for any reason), the remaining amount of the allowance will be added to your payroll as a "bonus" at the end of the year.

> [!NOTE]
> Please note that both the unused amount and any reimbursements not issued under MarsBased’s name will be treated as part of your salary and, therefore, are subject to tax and social security retentions from your paycheck.

Have fun & stay in shape! 🏄🏻‍♀️

## Conferences 🎤

Martians sometimes go to conferences as a way of learning new things and meeting other colleagues in the sector.

### Origin of proposals

In some cases, MarsBased is interested in (part of) the team participating in a specific conference, and therefore, the proposal for participation comes from the company itself. In this case, MarsBased pays for the conference fee + travel, + hotel expenses. You don’t need to recover those work hours later on.

We are also open to your proposals. If you are interested in attending a conference in the sector, please let us know by following these steps, and we will review it to see how we can help you.

### How to suggest a proposal

1. Create a new discussion in the [Linear board](https://linear.app/marsbased/team/MBT/active) for the conference you'd like to attend, and name it as "Attending + Name of the conference"
2. Include the following details about the conference:

- Event dates
- Conference fee (if any)
- How do you expect MarsBased to support you
- Why should MarsBased support you (which is the value you expect the conference will bring to you and to the company)

### Evaluation

We'll evaluate the information provided, and depending on the relevance for the company, you might get some days off for attending the conference, have conference tickets covered, or even get transportation and accommodation expenses covered. The conference will be considered:

- **Highly relevant:** when the content is directly related to your work and MarsBased activity. In this case, the company will be happy to pay for the conference fee + travel, + hotel expenses. You won’t need to recover those hours later on.
- **Interesting:** when the content is not very relevant for the company, but offers learning potential for you as a software engineer. In this case, you'll be able to attend the conference during your work schedule. You won't need to recover those hours later on.
- **Unrelated:** when the conference is not related to your work or MarsBased activity. In this case, the company offers you the flexibility to attend the conference during your work schedule and recover those hours another day as best fits you.

For conferences considered interesting and unrelated, remember you can use the allowance you get for training & learning purposes to cover the conference fee, travel, and/or hotel expenses.

You are welcome to bring your proposals! 📭

### Attending conferences: what’s expected of you

When you attend a conference on behalf of MarsBased, here’s what we expect from you.

**1) During the event**

- **Visibility.** Share at least one update on LinkedIn or X (Twitter) highlighting our presence (photo of the venue, keynote, booth, or yourself/team).
- **Photos & videos.** Capture a few photos or short clips during the event (talks, venue, team moments) and send them to Marketing so they can edit and publish on our channels.
- **Optional.** If time allows, short tweets/posts during the event are welcome.

**2) After the event**

- **Write-up (internal).** Each attendee prepares a short write-up for internal use. It doesn’t need to be polished—Marketing will refine it into a blog post.
- **Suggested formats:** “Top 5 takeaways from [Event Name]” or “Top 3 talks I attended.”

Include highlights, key insights, and any personal reflections.

**Blog post (public).** Marketing adapts your write-up into a public-facing blog post.

**3) Why this matters**

This helps us:

- Increase visibility in the community.
- Share knowledge with our audience.
- Strengthen both personal and company reputation.

## Coworking 🏢

Working from home might not be comfortable for everyone due to a lack of adequate working conditions at home, difficulties in concentrating because relatives are around, or the feeling of being too isolated and needing to be surrounded by other coworkers.

### Budget

If that's your case and you need a coworking space, MarsBased will provide you with an allowance of 150€ per month to pay the cost.

### How to proceed

1. Let Leire/Eli know your need for coworking.
2. If you've already identified the coworking place that suits you, that's great. Otherwise, we’ll help you find one (especially if you are based in Barcelona, where we know more places).
3. Normally, coworking spaces require signing a contract, and they charge a fee on a monthly basis. Let's see what the conditions are in that specific case, and we'll agree on the easiest way to manage it (can be either directly from MarsBased or through you).
4. **Let us know beforehand** when you are going to stop using your coworking space, either **temporarily or permanently**. Let the coworking know that as well, so as to avoid being charged for that period.

Count on us whenever you need something regarding your workspace!
